let's do the factoring of
this binomial using the case called
add cubes to start we must
verify that the coefficients are
perfect cubes is to say numbers that
have exact cubic roots and that the
exponents of the letters are numbers
divisible by 3 to start we take out
cube root of each term
out cubic root the first would give us
the cube root of 27 would be 3 and the
cubic root of x 3 would be x in this case
the key is to divide the exponent by 3
3 this video 3 gives us 1 for the
next term we will also take out
cubic root cubic root of 125 would be 5 and
cubic root of ya 9 would be that at 3
as we said the exponent is divided by
three with these two elements we're going to
build what is called the factor
short and the long factor let's continue
the next property the next
model for a sum of cubes the model
says so
plus 20 xa square minus bird more than
square the cubic root of that and the root
cubic of this one is 20 with these two is
then build the short factor that
is a binomial and the long factor that is
a trinomial let's see then
the short factor in this case would be
3x
5 and 3
with a plus sign because it is a
sum of cubes and the long factor we're going to
use a bracket to build it
starting with the first squared that
would then 3x all this raised to
square follows signs minus this by
this is 3x by 5 and 3
plus the second squared
that is to say 5 to 3 squared we closed the
square bracket
and in the next step we are going to do the
development of operations that
they were left
inside the bracket then let's see here
3x squared the exponent is
distribute and we have 9 x squared
minus the multiplication of 3x by 5 already
the three gives us 15 x xi to 3
more we develop this power the
square is distributed then we
is 5 squared that is 25 and we
are 3 squared it would and 6
remember that when we have a
power raised to another exponent
we leave the same base and multiply
the exponents is what happens here with
get to 3 squared
then in this way we have found
the factorization of this sum of cubes